---
title: UVa 120
tags:
  - 构造法
  - UVa
categories: []
date: 2017-03-17 14:29:43
---

### Description

>Stacks and Queues are often considered the bread and butter of data structures and find use in architecture,
parsing, operating systems, and discrete event simulation. Stacks are also important in the
theory of formal languages.
This problem involves both butter and sustenance in the form of pancakes rather than bread in
addition to a finicky server who flips pancakes according to a unique, but complete set of rules.
Given a stack of pancakes, you are to write a program that indicates how the stack can be sorted
so that the largest pancake is on the bottom and the smallest pancake is on the top. The size of a
pancake is given by the pancake’s diameter. All pancakes in a stack have different diameters.
Sorting a stack is done by a sequence of pancake “flips”. A flip consists of inserting a spatula
between two pancakes in a stack and flipping (reversing) all the pancakes on the spatula (reversing the
sub-stack). A flip is specified by giving the position of the pancake on the bottom of the sub-stack to
be flipped (relative to the whole stack). The pancake on the bottom of the whole stack has position 1
and the pancake on the top of a stack of n pancakes has position n.
A stack is specified by giving the diameter of each pancake in the stack in the order in which the
pancakes appear.
For example, consider the three stacks of pancakes below (in which pancake 8 is the top-most
pancake of the left stack):
8 7 2
4 6 5
6 4 8
7 8 4
5 5 6
2 2 7
The stack on the left can be transformed to the stack in the middle via flip(3). The middle stack can
be transformed into the right stack via the command flip(1).
Input
The input consists of a sequence of stacks of pancakes. Each stack will consist of between 1 and 30
pancakes and each pancake will have an integer diameter between 1 and 100. The input is terminated
by end-of-file. Each stack is given as a single line of input with the top pancake on a stack appearing
first on a line, the bottom pancake appearing last, and all pancakes separated by a space.
Output
For each stack of pancakes, the output should echo the original stack on one line, followed by some
sequence of flips that results in the stack of pancakes being sorted so that the largest diameter pancake
is on the bottom and the smallest on top. For each stack the sequence of flips should be terminated by
a ‘0’ (indicating no more flips necessary). Once a stack is sorted, no more flips should be made.
Sample Input
1 2 3 4 5
5 4 3 2 1
5 1 2 3 4
Sample Output
1 2 3 4 5
0
5 4 3 2 1
1 0
5 1 2 3 4
1 2 0

改来改去终于对了，还有很长的路要走啊，最近天天做梦梦到考研，仿佛是看到了浙大一样，为什么会这么强烈呢，大概还是后悔高中最后的那段日子吧。不过那是那时我的选择，无论怎样，都是不可复制的人生。

### Code

```
#include<cstdio>
#include<iostream>
#include<string>
#include<algorithm>

using namespace std;
typedef long long LL;

int p[101];
int a[101];
char x;
int y;
int pos;
int cur = 1;

int getpos(int n)
{
	for (int i = 1; i < cur; i++)
	{
		if (p[i] == n)
			return i;
	}
}

void _swap(int begin, int end)
{
	for (; end > begin; end--, begin++)
	{
		swap(p[begin], p[end]);
	}
}

bool check(int n)
{
	for (int i = n; i > 1; i--)
		if (a[i] != p[i])
			return false;
	return true;
}

int main()
{
	while (true)
	{
		cur = 1;
		while (scanf("%d", &y))
		{
			x = getchar();
			if (x == EOF)
				return 0;
			a[cur] = y;
			p[cur++] = y;
			if (x == '\n')
				break;
		}
		for (int i = 1; i < cur; i++)
			i != cur - 1 ? printf("%d ", p[i]) : printf("%d\n", p[i]);
		sort(a + 1, a + cur);
		for (int i = cur - 1; i > 1; i--)
		{
			if (!check(i))
			{
				pos = getpos(a[i]);
				_swap(1, pos);
				printf("%d ", cur - pos);
				_swap(1, i);
				printf("%d ", cur - i);
			}
		}
		printf("0\n");
	}
	return 0;
}
```